# CS-405-Secure-Coding
CS-405 Secure Coding
This class has taught me more in-depth ways of preventing security and data breaches.

•The adoption of a secure coding standard is very important. The development team should know a series of coding standards that they need to be aware of and implement into everything that is being developed. Each of these standards are chosen to prevent the potential vulnerabilities that may arise during development. Additionally, actively applying secure coding throughout the development process will prevent any vulnerabilities that would fall through the cracks and be missed if secure coding was only addressed at the end of development. 

It’s important when looking at the assessment of risks that we consider the risk, as well as the severity, likelihood of it occurring, and lastly the remediation cost. This criterion will allow us to categorize the priority of the risks and address the ones that are more costly and have a high probability of occurring, first, and then address the others. By applying this logic, the company can decrease the time and money spent on a risk that could have been prevented but was left vulnerable and successfully hacked.

Prior to this course, I knew security was important, but I always thought there were tools that were 100% effective in preventing security breaches but weren't always affordable for every development company. Now I know how far off I was in my thinking. It's very easy to see how an inexperienced developer can pave a smooth pathway for a hacker to easily obtain information through a successful breach. As a developer, it's important to remember that nothing is ever safe 100%, and because of that, we need to stay diligent and updated on all new security policies. We need to remain one step ahead of hackers to fulfill our role in protecting our user’s information as promised. As a user, I am now very aware of the permissions I am giving websites whether it be to monitor my cookies, or an app on my phone to access my documents or pictures. It's so important to only give out the necessary information/access that is needed to complete the task that we are using the app for. 

In addition to applying security throughout the development process and not waiting until the end, we can also do more to prevent vulnerabilities from happening. As the team develops, it is important for the team to be up to date on all security measures and perform regular audits on the code to identify where improvements can be made. And while tools are not 100% fail-safe, utilizing them to help locate vulnerabilities will help smooth out any bumps that we missed along the way. Increasing the security of data storage/cloud storage, monitoring data sessions, and file handling are all additional ways to help maintain a higher level of security awareness.

